Do good explanations have to be true?
In the tireless pursuit of knowledge, the backgrounds behind numerous developments can be daunting to approach in their raw form. With so much knowledge being difficult to understand, more easily understandable explanations have been developed to allow more knowers to accrue this knowledge. However, explanations involve a simplification of knowledge in order to be created. This begs the question: does a simplification of knowledge in the development of explanations entail a bad explanation? I believe that simplifications of knowledge, even if deviating from the truth, can still allow for the creation of good explanations, as explanations derived from simplifications tend to be more intuitive. Intuitive knowledge will be defined as being understandable merely by instinct, without conscious reasoning. Since the definition of a good explanation can be ambiguous, it will be considered in this work from a utilitarian standpoint. A good explanation shall be defined as one that allows a knower to reach the same external state of knowledge from a starting point. This definition of a good explanation suggests that so long as the same conclusion can be reached from initial conditions, it shall be considered useful. This idea of good explanations will be explored in terms of natural sciences and mathematics, using a combination of perception, intuition, imagination and reasoning to evaluate if violations of truth in each case can still result in good explanations and whether intuition can play a key role in understanding. The definition of truth in each of these areas of knowledge varies: for natural sciences, Kuhn’s paradigm model will be used, following the correspondence theory of truth; for math, claims based on fundamentally true axioms, following coherence theory, will be used as the truth.

Beginning with natural sciences, the use of analogies and simplified models allow for a greater degree of utilization of knowledge and a forwards progression in the various fields of science. In science, knowledge is obtained through experimentation and thus empirical observations. These observations are then used with logic and reasoning to create theories, becoming the established truth in science. Kuhn’s paradigm structure in science consists of realms made up of general theoretical assumptions and laws that are accepted as true by the people who practice science within those paradigms (Chalmers, 1987). Kuhn’s model takes into account the ability for new paradigms to arise and for old ones to die off, resulting in a changing standard of truth. Although theories are developed into truth, not all theories fit into the current paradigms in the natural sciences. Models, such as Newtonian gravitation are no longer considered to be true, as they are no longer in the current paradigm. However, this does not invalidate their use. When attempting to understand scientific theories, a degree of imagination must be used to make the connection. Newtonian gravity, being one of the earliest models to attempt an explanation of gravitation on a universal scale, is still used today in many application as it uses a familiar idea of fields. Even though general relativity is considered to be the current most-accepted truth for cosmic-scale mechanics (Sodarto, 2017), Newton’s theory of gravity is still used for predicting tides around the world. As Sordarto puts it, ‘Einstein’s theory of gravity superior than Newton’s theory of gravity’ is nonsense. From a theoretical standpoint, general relativity provides a more correct truth, since it is presently the most widely accepted theory. However, the simpler nature of Newton’s laws are more easily grasped by individuals and more directly applicable to the creation of further knowledge. Much of the motion within the Solar System, save exceptions such as Mercury, are still explained using the concept of Newtonian gravitational fields (Sodarto, 2017). These explanations, done either with relativity or Newton’s laws, all result in thinkers concluding that planets move in a certain way. Thus, the usage of a simpler model, in the form of Newton’s laws to explain planetary motion, can still produce good explanations that take an individual from identical starting conditions to the same conclusion. Another example of effectively correct explanations derived from scientific non-truth is the water analogy for DC circuits. The model uses the flow of water through a system of pipes, along with devices such as pumps and water wheels to describe current flowing through electrical circuits. As Dr. Nave puts it, the analogy with a water circuit can give some quick perspective about the behavior of a simple DC electric circuit. There are many clear-cut parallels in behavior, particularly from an energy perspective. (2017) However, these are two vastly different physical phenomena, and the analogy has faults (Heins, 2014), despite aiding the imaginative understanding of electrical phenomena. Most importantly, it gives only a qualitative understanding of the behaviour of current, without any formulae for properly calculating potential difference or current. Though not strictly a paradigm in science, the widespread usage of the water analogy serves to illustrate that an apparently valid understanding of a concept can be derived from scientifically false knowledge. One counter argument to this point is that the simplified knowledge is detrimental to the development of further scientific understanding; simplified explanations use vague analogies do not allow a precise quantification of how the processes being described actually work, as shown by the DC water analogy - and if simplified models are used, further theories would be untrue. Although these simplified models are not ideal for making new knowledge, gaining a basic qualitative understanding of processes is equally important. A general theme that can be concluded from these examples is the importance of intuitiveness when it comes to creating good explanations. I believe that intuitive explanations tend to be favoured, as they are more compatible with an individual’s brain, and are more easily applied to other tasks. The concept of gravitational fields is easier to grasp than spacetime fabric, for instance. Hence, as a simplification of scientific knowledge creates more intuitive models that still lead to the same essential conclusions, simplified knowledge can still create good explanations. This implies that the use of analogies is an important tool in the education of the natural sciences.

	Moving onto mathematics, truth is derived from a starting set of axioms, which are self-evident formal statements, which can be used to prove others. However, what does it mean to be self-evident? Axiomatic knowledge is first created through the use of empirical observations from real phenomena (such as seeing a line between two markings on the ground), and then a process of formalization and abstraction using imagination to make the mathematical axioms. For example, Euclid’s postulates take essential notions of humans’ geometrical sense and formalizes them into statements (Weisstein, E.W., 2019).  Humans have the innate ability to recognize and self-prove these axioms, suggesting that intuitive understanding is key to the production of new knowledge in mathematics. However, simply showing that intuition is an important role in understanding does not fully answer the question of whether simplifications can still create good explanations. Simplifications (which in the case of math, are deviations from the truth) have often been made in mathematics. The double slit interference equation used in optics, pendulum motion equations, and astronomical distance calculations all use one critical and widely used approximation in their derivation. It is that:
sin(x) = x, when x is small
Approximations by nature are simplifications, deviating from the truth, in order to make a task easier. Without the approximation, calculations of this nature require far more work. For instance, its use in pendulum motion is critical to preserve simplicity. Leaving in sin(x) requires the use of difficult calculus and makes it harder to estimate an answer in problem solving. In making this approximation, the equations become solvable by hand and are more easily interpreted (Brilliant, 2019) - with the answer still effectively being the same either way. An important counterclaim is that approximations do not allow the knower to reach an identical conclusion compared to an unsimplified version - only a close answer. Arguing that these explanations seems to imply that a wrong answer could be correct! However, approximations and Approximation Theory are still widely used because of the typically small error incurred from making the approximations in the right cases (Weisstein, E.W., 2019). Approximations are still critical in mathematics for yielding a sufficiently close, and thus valid answer while maintain intuitiveness. Thus, simplifications of mathematical knowledge in the form of approximations can still create good explanations. The implications of this argument are that so long as approximations are used properly, they are perfectly valid.

	In conclusion, explanations have proven to be extremely useful both in applying knowledge to practical situations, as well as being a stepping stone in the understanding of more complex theories. In each case, the simplified, false knowledge yields a more intuitive explanation which still holds largely true and allows knowers to reach roughly the same conclusions. Thus, it can be said that simplifications can still result in good explanations, which take an individual from a set of starting conditions to the same end conditions. There is certainly the argument that what matters is not the end result, but rather the very process of understanding scientific or mathematical truth. Sometimes, a more accurate, quantitative understanding is necessary. However, in a world where there exists so much knowledge, I believe that there is often not enough time to learn the truth of everything that it experienced. Being able to make the correct connections from an external perspective should be sufficient for many cases of knowledge. As Albert Einstein famously declared in 1929 (Quote Investigator, 2013), Imagination is more important than knowledge.
