The Design Alpha will consist of a conversation involving your team members and members of the
Teaching Team. As a team, your focus should be on knowing what you have done, how you have done
it, and what your next steps need to be. Do not think of it as a presentation. In some engineering
workplaces, people have what is called a bench review – where a supervisor or small group will
discuss progress on a project gathered in a board room, or quite literally at a work bench.
Preparation for such a review is minimal – it could literally be called on the spur of the moment (like a
pop quiz). If you have been actively working on your project, you should not find the experience
difficult. It will involve dynamic, semi-structured conversation with members of the Teaching Team.
The conversation will focus on understanding and critiquing both the design concepts and the process.
During the conversation the Teaching Team will direct questions at specific team members.

The Design Alpha is a chance for student teams to get early feedback on their initial design concepts
and their design process so far. Student teams will have 15 minutes of conversation with the teaching
team, which will give them an opportunity to gain early feedback and explore the quality of their early
design ideas.

Your team, who must demonstrate not only having engaged in credible engineering design
activities but also having developed design concepts worthy of testing.
You, individually, as an aspiring engineering designer who must develop both individual and
team engineering design skills, and who needs to begin to differentiate themselves from their
peers through their unique perspectives.
Your teaching team, who is responsible for helping you to refine and respond to your
opportunity with credible engineering design, and for guiding you towards the
Recommendation Report.
The stakeholders from your Design Brief, who by definition have an interest in both the
recommended design concept and the process of its development.
The Teaching Team will randomly assign team members to discuss the different
aspects at the beginning of studio (which offers you a few minutes to prepare your thinking).1
Discussing these four aspects of your design work should allow each person to share in the
conversation and demonstrate their professionalism.
Thus, teams will need to work collaboratively on the project so that knowledge of different aspects is
shared, thus ensuring each team member is able to discuss all aspects of the design work.
A design brief is a document that frames an opportunity from an engineering design perspective.
The overall objective of a design brief is to provide an engineering designer or design team with
the information and interpretations needed to successfully develop designs with the potential to
legitimately address the opportunity. Based on a brief, designers should be able to recommend a
conceptual design.
For this purpose, design briefs should provide sufficient information, interpretation, and
guidance that the respondents can focus their efforts on developing conceptual designs. A design
brief should also enable the respondents to revisit and reframe elements of the brief if they find
it necessary or appropriate to do so.
In Praxis I, you need to collaborate with a team of four to create a coherent team-level vision for
your work together to address the broad challenge that frames the opportunity; this challenge is:

These criteria should be understood in conjunction with, and measured using the Design Brief
Independent Assessment Tool. That Tool provides appropriate sub-criteria, levels of achievement,
and level descriptions that you can use to independently assess your work. For all criteria more,
higher, or greater are preferred.
Note: These criteria are in no particular order and may not be weighted equally.
1. Quality of the opportunity
A good opportunity
i. reflects the team's and primary stakeholders' interests and values,
ii. represents a legitimate stakeholder need (based on research and observation),
iii. is solvable by a team of first-year engineering science students,
iv. can be represented and solved in multiple meaningful ways (e.g. calculation, physical
prototype(s), drawings, demonstrations, or other means), but
v. cannot simply be solved by selecting a reference design (existing product or service.)
2. Correctness, appropriateness, and credibility of the engineering requirements
Good Requirements
i. model the opportunity and stakeholder experience in engineering terms,
ii. incorporate codes and standards, handbooks, DfXs as necessary,
iii. are tailored or modified to be made usable for Engineering Science students in their 1st
term of study who have limited time to complete their design activities,
iv. are internally consistent and consistent with the remainder of the brief.
3. Quality of reference designs
Reference designs demonstrate thorough consideration of existing solution possibilities and/
or can be used to guide future design activities
4. The quality and credibility of your engineering arguments.
Arguments in engineering work from the data gathered (observation and research) and are
structured using logical models (i.e. Toulmin Model).
5. Quality of the document as a Design Brief
A good design brief should allow a reader to read without re-reading, find information
quickly, and find the reasoning substantive. Readability is aided by an introduction,
structured headings and sub-headings indicating sections, and a brief conclusion, with the
internal structure of the document designed in response to the Design Brief’s content.
6. The coherence and clarity of your English written and visual communication.
Integrate visuals and text to best express your meaning. Proficiency with engineering visuals
and text is important to communicate to engineering readers, so try to use the specific
language of design decision-making. Visuals are often the clearest way to express ideas in
engineering (not just for decoration).